At its meeting today, the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of Bank Negara Malaysia decided to maintain the Overnight Policy Rate (OPR) at 2.75%.

The latest indicators point towards continued expansion in global growth, supported by sustained consumer spending and front-loading activities. The conclusion of many trade negotiations has to some extent eased global uncertainty. The global growth outlook would remain supported by positive labour market conditions, less restrictive monetary policy and fiscal stimulus. Nonetheless, trade policy developments are still expected to weigh on global growth going forward, as announced tariff rates take effect and the frontloading activity dissipates. Downside risks remain, albeit to a lesser degree arising from potentially higher tariffs, especially product-specific ones, and escalations in geopolitical tensions. These lingering uncertainties could lead to greater volatility in the global financial markets and commodity prices. Upside potential includes favourable outcomes from remaining US trade negotiations and pro-growth policies in major economies.

The Malaysian economy expanded by 4.4% in the first half of 2025, underpinned by sustained spending and investment activities, and is on track to grow between 4% and 4.8% in 2025. Moving forward into 2026, growth will continue to be supported by resilient domestic demand. Employment, wage growth and income-related policy measures will remain supportive of household spending. The expansion in investment activity will be driven by the progress of multi-year projects in both the private and public sectors, the continued high realisation of approved investments, as well as the ongoing implementation of catalytic initiatives under the national master plans and the Thirteenth Malaysia Plan (RMK13). This outlook remains subject to uncertainties, in particular surrounding global developments. Downside risks to the growth outlook remain from slower global trade, weaker sentiment, as well as lower-than-expected commodity production. Meanwhile, favourable outcomes from remaining US trade negotiations, pro-growth policies in major economies, continued demand for electrical and electronic goods, and robust tourism activity could raise Malaysia’s export and growth prospects.

Headline and core inflation averaged 1.4% and 1.9% in the first seven months of the year, respectively. Headline inflation for 2025 and 2026 is expected to remain moderate amid contained global cost conditions. The easing trend in global commodity prices is expected to contribute to moderate domestic cost conditions. Core inflation is expected to remain stable and close to the long-term average, reflecting continued expansion in economic activity and the absence of excessive demand pressures. This trend is expected to continue going into 2026. In this environment, the overall impact of the announced and upcoming domestic policy reforms on inflation is expected to be contained.

At the current OPR level, the MPC considers the monetary policy stance to be appropriate and supportive of the economy amid price stability. The MPC will continue to monitor ongoing developments and assess the balance of risks surrounding the outlook for domestic growth and inflation.